# Crappy Code Everyday

After reading [an article about shifting from consumer mindset to producer mindset](https://medium.com/the-ascent/how-to-shift-your-mindset-from-consumer-to-producer-413a80fe1e7c), I realized that I've been trying to "shooting star" in my coding career, I've been aiming a very high standard and end up not progressing at all.

So now, I will try to do a different approach. I'll try becoming a **doer** that do coding everyday, and set the bar to absolute minimum (crappy), to increase throughput.

Maybe I'll update the list of what I'm doing everyday here. Maybe in a form of list of repositories. I don't know, we'll see, I'm just getting started after all.

## Progess

- **Creating Blog** -- I just creating blog on free wordpress hosting but it lacks customization (can't install Elementor on free plan), so I'm abandoning it. [Here's the link to the blog](https://candracodesme.wordpress.com/). Just looking [another solution](https://github.com/paladini/ghost-on-github-pages), maybe I'll try it. *Update: I tried it, it sucks and not working in my setup. Spend few hours try to figure out how to make it work, but the problem keeps popping up. It's not that I easily give up on debugging, but it's not worth it to pursue it further I think. I just decided to do other project instead.*
- **Attempt to Host Laravel in Https** -- I'm trying to host Laravel app along with https for building telegram bot. I'm using apache and Alibaba Cloud ECS to host it + certbot Let's Encrypt to install the certificate. I followed [this tutorial](https://help.clouding.io/hc/en-us/articles/4406607535634-How-to-Deploy-Laravel-8-with-Apache-and-Let-s-Encrypt-SSL-on-Ubuntu-20-04) , which is comperhensive enough, but some part didn't work on my setup. Here's what I learned:

  * **Always look into apache log if something goes wrong** ->  The virtual host on that tutorial specify AllowOverride None , which ignore all .htaccess file and makes Laravel route didn't work except using /index.php/routename. Which is kinda ugly, so I changed to AllowOverride all, but it leads to 403 Error when accessing Laravel route, this drives me nuts for few days because I couldn't find the reason behind the error, I googled and find so many different solution, and all of them didn't work for me. So I decided to look the apache log first and the reason is dead simple, I just need to add +FollowSymlinks in .htaccess Options because RewriteRule require it (or something like that). I felt so dumb wasting so much hours googling the solution when it just right there in front of my eyes.
  * **Check open port in security group rule in Alibaba Console** -> So I already configured apache and Laravel, and I want to expose it to the internet, but when I access the url from the browser, it always RTO'ed. So I do curl from localhost first, and it's works, after that I curl into private network, it also works, but when I try to curl from public IP, it always RTO. it turns out that I had to manualy open port from the Alibaba Console to expose my site to the internet.
  * **For the first time, I buy and configure domain names** -> It turns out, it's not that complicated to configure domain names to point to my public IP. I just need to add "A Record" in the DNS config from the domain provider's dashboard.
  * *Here's my site that I just configured: [candracodes.space](https://web.archive.org/web/20220501163617/https://candracodes.space/)*
  * *It feels weird when I said I code everyday but I updated this repo 3 days later after first commit, but I had my reason: mostly because I try to figure out the solution to Apache problem I mentioned above, and also I had another job outside coding. So.. yeah.*
- **Attempt to Host Express JS in sub-domain** -- After successifully deploy/host laravel before, I try to host Express JS in subdomain alongside the laravel website, at first I'm confused and didn't know where to start, but after couple of googling and some trial&error, I finally did it. [Here's the details](guide/expressjs-subdomain.md) on how I did it. and here's [the link](https://web.archive.org/web/20220507063021/https://test.candracodes.space/) to the subdomain that I just created.
